inference providers (#2624)
huggingface/blog: inference-providers.md

order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages. They will use the first provider in your list where the model you’re browsing is “Warm”, or already loaded.

As we mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference APIs: 
custom key (calls go out to the inference provider directly, using your own API key); or
Routed by HF (in that case, you don't need a token from the provider, and the charges are applied directly to your HF account rather than the provider's account)

model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible + Warm with the current model, sorted by user preference)

### From the client SDKs

#### from Python, using huggingface_hub

The following example shows how to use DeepSeek-R1 using Together AI as the inference provider. You can use a [Hugging Face token](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) for automatic routing through Hugging Face, or your own Together AI API key if you have one.

```python
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
	provider="together",

> 	api_key="hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
```

)

messages = [
	{
		"role": "user",
		"content": "What is the capital of France?"
	}
]

completion = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1", 
	messages=messages, 
	max_tokens=500
)

print(completion.choices[0].message)
```

And here's how to generate an image from a text prompt using [FLUX.1-dev](black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev) running on [fal.ai](https://fal.ai/models/fal-ai/flux/dev):

```python
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
	provider="fal-ai",

> 	api_key="hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
```

)

# output is a PIL.Image object
image = client.text_to_image(
	"Labrador in the style of Vermeer",
	model="black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev"
)
```

#### from JS using @huggingface/inference

```js
import { HfInference } from "@huggingface/inference";

> const client = new HfInference("hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const client = new HfInference("xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx");
```

const chatCompletion = await client.chatCompletion({
	model: "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1",
	messages: [
		{
			role: "user",
			content: "What is the capital of France?"
		}
	],
	provider: "together",
	max_tokens: 500
});

console.log(chatCompletion.choices[0].message);
```

### From HTTP calls

```bash
curl 'https://huggingface.co/api/inference-proxy/together/v1/chat/completions' \

> -H 'Authorization: Bearer hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-H 'Authorization: Bearer xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \
```

---
title: "Welcome to Inference Providers on the Hub 🔥"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/inference-providers/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: burkaygur
  guest: true
  org: fal
- user: zeke
  guest: true
  org: replicate
- user: aton2006
  guest: true
  org: sambanovasystems
- user: hassanelmghari
  guest: true
  org: togethercomputer
- user: sbrandeis
- user: kramp
- user: julien-c
---

Today, we are launching the integration of four awesome serverless Inference Providers – **fal, Replicate, Sambanova, Together AI** – directly on the Hub’s model pages. They are also seamlessly integrated into our client SDKs (for JS and Python), making it easier than ever to explore serverless inference of a wide variety of models that run on your favorite providers.

> <!-- <insert big visual with logos> -->

Author: yes @gary149 is on it

Here’s what this enables, taking the timely example of DeepSeek/DeepSeek-R1, a model which has achieved mainstream fame over the past few days 🔥:

<!-- <insert screenshot or GIF of DeepSeek-R1 model page showcasing fast Inference> -->

Rodrigo Liang, Co-Founder & CEO at [SambaNova](https://huggingface.co/sambanovasystems): "We are excited to be partnering with Hugging Face to accelerate its Inference API. Hugging Face developers now have access to much faster inference speeds on a wide range of the best open source models."

Zeke Sikelianos, Founding Designer at [Replicate](https://huggingface.co/replicate): "Hugging Face is the de facto home of open-source model weights, and has been a key player in making AI more accessible to the world. We use Hugging Face internally at Replicate as our weights registry of choice, and we're honored to be among the first inference providers to be featured in this launch."

**This is just the start, and we’ll build on top of this with the community in the [coming weeks](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/49)!**

## How it works

### In the website UI

> 1. In your user account settings, you are able to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In your user account settings, you can now:
```

const chatCompletion = await client.chatCompletion({
	model: "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1",
	messages: [
		{
			role: "user",
			content: "What is the capital of France?"
		}
	],
	provider: "together",
	max_tokens: 500
});

console.log(chatCompletion.choices[0].message);
```

### From HTTP calls

```bash
curl 'https://huggingface.co/api/inference-proxy/together/v1/chat/completions' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
    "model": "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1",
    "messages": [
		{
			"role": "user",
			"content": "What is the capital of France?"
		}
	],
    "max_tokens": 500,
    "stream": false
}'
```

## Billing

In the direct calls mode, i.e. when you use a custom key, you are billed by the corresponding Provider directly, for instance you're billed on your Together AI account when calling Together.

In the Routing mode, our intent is to charge for routed requests the same amount you would pay if you called the API directly. That is, we don't charge anything on top of Provider requests. (If this feature is successful, we might get revenue share from our partners).

> Important Note ‼️ PRO users get $2 included Inference credits every month. You can use them accross providers. 🔥

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Important Note** ‼️ PRO users get $2 included Inference credits every month. You can use them across providers. 🔥
```

## Feedback and next steps

> We would love to get your feedback! Here’s a Hub discussion you can use: https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/49

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We would love to get your feedback! Here’s [a Hub discussion](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/49) you can use.
```

**This is just the start, and we’ll build on top of this with the community in the [coming weeks](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/49)!**

## How it works

### In the website UI

1. In your user account settings, you are able to:
- set your own API keys for the providers you’ve signed up with. Otherwise, you can still use them – your requests will be routed through HF.
- order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages. They will use the first provider in your list where the model you’re browsing is “Warm”, or already loaded.

2. As we mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference APIs: 
- custom key (calls go out to the inference provider directly, using your own API key); or
- Routed by HF (in that case, you don't need a token from the provider, and the charges are applied directly to your HF account rather than the provider's account)

3. model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible + Warm with the current model, sorted by user preference)

### From the client SDKs

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use our client SDKs [huggingface_hub](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/v0.13.2/en/guides/inference) Python library, [huggingface.js](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface.js/en/hub/README) and cURL directly.
You can check the detailed parameters for different tasks for [cURL](https://huggingface.co/docs/api-inference/en/parameters), [JS](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface.js/en/inference/modules) and [huggingface_hub](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/en/package_reference/inference_types).
```

not sure how much it will stretch out of text and image generation, adding reference just in case

Author: imo not needed

**This is just the start, and we’ll build on top of this with the community in the [coming weeks](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/49)!**

## How it works

### In the website UI

1. In your user account settings, you are able to:
- set your own API keys for the providers you’ve signed up with. Otherwise, you can still use them – your requests will be routed through HF.
- order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages. They will use the first provider in your list where the model you’re browsing is “Warm”, or already loaded.

2. As we mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference APIs: 
- custom key (calls go out to the inference provider directly, using your own API key); or
- Routed by HF (in that case, you don't need a token from the provider, and the charges are applied directly to your HF account rather than the provider's account)

3. model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible + Warm with the current model, sorted by user preference)

### From the client SDKs

#### from Python, using huggingface_hub

> The following example shows how to use DeepSeek-R1 using Together AI as the inference provider. You can use a [Hugging Face token](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) for automatic routing through Hugging Face, or your own Together AI API key if you have one.

Author: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use DeepSeek-R1 using Together AI as the inference provider. You can use a [Hugging Face token](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) for automatic routing through Hugging Face, or your own Together AI API key if you have one.

Install `huggingface_hub` version v0.28.0 or later ([release notes](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/releases/tag/v0.28.0.rc0)).
```

Author: cc @hanouticelina @Wauplin ^

feel free to commit the suggestion if you think it's good

Reviewer 3: Resolving this, since it's already in.

Zeke Sikelianos, Founding Designer at [Replicate](https://huggingface.co/replicate): "Hugging Face is the de facto home of open-source model weights, and has been a key player in making AI more accessible to the world. We use Hugging Face internally at Replicate as our weights registry of choice, and we're honored to be among the first inference providers to be featured in this launch."

**This is just the start, and we’ll build on top of this with the community in the [coming weeks](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/49)!**

## How it works

### In the website UI

1. In your user account settings, you are able to:
- set your own API keys for the providers you’ve signed up with. Otherwise, you can still use them – your requests will be routed through HF.
- order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages. They will use the first provider in your list where the model you’re browsing is “Warm”, or already loaded.

2. As we mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference APIs: 

> - custom key (calls go out to the inference provider directly, using your own API key); or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- custom key (calls go directly to the inference provider, using your own API key of the corresponding inference provider); or
```

---
title: "Welcome to Inference Providers on the Hub 🔥"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/inference-providers/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: burkaygur
  guest: true
  org: fal
- user: zeke
  guest: true
  org: replicate
- user: aton2006
  guest: true
  org: sambanovasystems
- user: hassanelmghari
  guest: true
  org: togethercomputer
- user: sbrandeis
- user: kramp
- user: julien-c
---

Today, we are launching the integration of four awesome serverless Inference Providers – **fal, Replicate, Sambanova, Together AI** – directly on the Hub’s model pages. They are also seamlessly integrated into our client SDKs (for JS and Python), making it easier than ever to explore serverless inference of a wide variety of models that run on your favorite providers.

<!-- <insert big visual with logos> -->
 

> We’ve been hosting a serverless Inference API on the Hub for a long time (we launched the v1 in summer 2020 – wow, time flies 🤯). While this has enabled easy exploration and prototyping, we’ve since refined our core value proposition towards collaboration, storage, versioning, and distribution of large datasets and models with the community. At the same time, serverless providers have flourished, and the time was right for Hugging Face to offer easy and unified access to serverless inference through a set of great providers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’ve been hosting a serverless Inference API on the Hub for a long time (we launched the v1 in summer 2020 – wow, time flies 🤯). While this has enabled easy exploration and prototyping, we’ve refined our core value proposition towards collaboration, storage, versioning, and distribution of large datasets and models with the community. At the same time, serverless providers have flourished, and the time was right for Hugging Face to offer easy and unified access to serverless inference through a set of great providers. 
```

<!-- <insert screenshot or GIF of DeepSeek-R1 model page showcasing fast Inference> -->

Rodrigo Liang, Co-Founder & CEO at [SambaNova](https://huggingface.co/sambanovasystems): "We are excited to be partnering with Hugging Face to accelerate its Inference API. Hugging Face developers now have access to much faster inference speeds on a wide range of the best open source models."

Zeke Sikelianos, Founding Designer at [Replicate](https://huggingface.co/replicate): "Hugging Face is the de facto home of open-source model weights, and has been a key player in making AI more accessible to the world. We use Hugging Face internally at Replicate as our weights registry of choice, and we're honored to be among the first inference providers to be featured in this launch."

**This is just the start, and we’ll build on top of this with the community in the [coming weeks](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/49)!**

## How it works

### In the website UI

1. In your user account settings, you are able to:
- set your own API keys for the providers you’ve signed up with. Otherwise, you can still use them – your requests will be routed through HF.

> - order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages. They will use the first provider in your list where the model you’re browsing is “Warm”, or already loaded.

Reviewer: Yes, but I'm not sure it's in use any more (either for external providers or internally)

> - order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages. They will use the first provider in your list where the model you’re browsing is “Warm”, or already loaded.

Reviewer 4: It could be simpler and say the same

```suggestion
- order providers by preference. The widget and code snippets in a model's page will use the first provider in your list, with a “Warm” or already loaded option.
```

- Routed by HF (in that case, you don't need a token from the provider, and the charges are applied directly to your HF account rather than the provider's account)

3. model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible + Warm with the current model, sorted by user preference)

### From the client SDKs

#### from Python, using huggingface_hub

The following example shows how to use DeepSeek-R1 using Together AI as the inference provider. You can use a [Hugging Face token](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) for automatic routing through Hugging Face, or your own Together AI API key if you have one.

Install `huggingface_hub` version v0.28.0 or later ([release notes](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/releases/tag/v0.28.0.rc0)).

```python
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
	provider="together",
	api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
)

messages = [
	{
		"role": "user",
		"content": "What is the capital of France?"
	}
]

completion = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1", 
	messages=messages, 
	max_tokens=500
)

print(completion.choices[0].message)
```

> Note: You can also use OpenAI client library to call the Inference Providers too, see [here for more details](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1?inference_provider=together&language=python&inference_api=true).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** You can also use the OpenAI client library to call the Inference Providers too; see [here an example for DeepSeek model](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1?inference_provider=together&language=python&inference_api=true).
```

```js
import { HfInference } from "@huggingface/inference";

const client = new HfInference("xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx");

const chatCompletion = await client.chatCompletion({
	model: "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1",
	messages: [
		{
			role: "user",
			content: "What is the capital of France?"
		}
	],
	provider: "together",
	max_tokens: 500
});

console.log(chatCompletion.choices[0].message);
```

### From HTTP calls

We expose the Routing proxy directly under the huggingface.co domain so you can call it directly, it's very useful for OpenAI-compatible APIs for instance. You can just swap the URL as a base URL: `https://huggingface.co/api/inference-proxy/{:provider}`.

Here's how you can call Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct using Sambanova as the inference provider via cURL.

```bash
curl 'https://huggingface.co/api/inference-proxy/sambanova/v1/chat/completions' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
    "model": "meta-llama/Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct",
    "messages": [
		{
			"role": "user",
			"content": "What is the capital of France?"
		}
	],
    "max_tokens": 500,
    "stream": false
}'
```

## Billing

> In the direct calls mode, i.e. when you use a custom key, you are billed by the corresponding Provider directly, for instance you're billed on your Together AI account when calling Together.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For direct requests, i.e. when you use the key from an inference provider, you are billed by the corresponding provider. For instance, if you use a Together AI key you're billed on your Together AI account.
```

> In the direct calls mode, i.e. when you use a custom key, you are billed by the corresponding Provider directly, for instance you're billed on your Together AI account when calling Together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the direct calls mode, i.e. when you use a custom key, you are billed by the corresponding Provider directly. For instance you're billed on your Together AI account when calling Together.
```

> In the Routing mode, our intent is to charge for routed requests the same amount you would pay if you called the API directly. That is, we don't charge anything on top of Provider requests. (If this feature is successful, we might get revenue share from our partners).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For routed requests, i.e. when you authenticate via the hub, you'll only pay the standard provider API rates. There's no additional markup from us, we just pass through the provider costs directly. (In the future, we may establish revenue-sharing agreements with our provider partners.)
```

> **Important Note** ‼️ PRO users get $2 included Inference credits every month. You can use them across providers. 🔥

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Important Note** ‼️ PRO users get $2 worth of Inference credits every month. You can use them across providers. 🔥
```

- order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages.

2. As we mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference APIs: 
- custom key (calls go directly to the inference provider, using your own API key of the corresponding inference provider); or
- Routed by HF (in that case, you don't need a token from the provider, and the charges are applied directly to your HF account rather than the provider's account)

3. Model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible + Warm with the current model, sorted by user preference)

### From the client SDKs

#### from Python, using huggingface_hub

The following example shows how to use DeepSeek-R1 using Together AI as the inference provider. You can use a [Hugging Face token](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) for automatic routing through Hugging Face, or your own Together AI API key if you have one.

Install `huggingface_hub` version v0.28.0 or later ([release notes](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/releases/tag/v0.28.0.rc0)).

> ```python
> from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient
> 
> client = InferenceClient(
> 	provider="together",
> 	api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
> )
> 
> messages = [
> 	{
> 		"role": "user",
> 		"content": "What is the capital of France?"
> 	}
> ]
> 
> completion = client.chat.completions.create(
>     model="deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1", 
> 	messages=messages, 
> 	max_tokens=500
> )
> 
> print(completion.choices[0].message)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```python
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
    provider="together",
    api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
)

messages = [
    {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "What is the capital of France?"
    }
]

completion = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1", 
    messages=messages, 
    max_tokens=500
)

print(completion.choices[0].message)
```

(nit) indentation

```

**Note:** You can also use the OpenAI client library to call the Inference Providers too; see [here an example for DeepSeek model](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1?inference_provider=together&language=python&inference_api=true).

And here's how to generate an image from a text prompt using [FLUX.1-dev](black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev) running on [fal.ai](https://fal.ai/models/fal-ai/flux/dev):

> ```python
> from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient
> 
> client = InferenceClient(
> 	provider="fal-ai",
> 	api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
> )
> 
> # output is a PIL.Image object
> image = client.text_to_image(
> 	"Labrador in the style of Vermeer",
> 	model="black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev"
> )
> ```

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```python
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
    provider="fal-ai",
    api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
)

# output is a PIL.Image object
image = client.text_to_image(
    "Labrador in the style of Vermeer",
    model="black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev"
)
```
```

Here's how you can call Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct using Sambanova as the inference provider via cURL.

```bash
curl 'https://huggingface.co/api/inference-proxy/sambanova/v1/chat/completions' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
    "model": "meta-llama/Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct",
    "messages": [
		{
			"role": "user",
			"content": "What is the capital of France?"
		}
	],
    "max_tokens": 500,
    "stream": false
}'
```

## Billing

For direct requests, i.e. when you use the key from an inference provider, you are billed by the corresponding provider. For instance, if you use a Together AI key you're billed on your Together AI account.

For routed requests, i.e. when you authenticate via the hub, you'll only pay the standard provider API rates. There's no additional markup from us, we just pass through the provider costs directly. (In the future, we may establish revenue-sharing agreements with our provider partners.)

**Important Note** ‼️ PRO users get $2 worth of Inference credits every month. You can use them across providers. 🔥

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also provide free inference with quota for our signed-in free users.
```

Reviewer 3: don't know about this, I purposefully skipped to keep the attention on Pro subs.

Author: tweaed it a bit

Author: oops sorry i committed

<!-- <insert big visual with logos> -->
 
We’ve been hosting a serverless Inference API on the Hub for a long time (we launched the v1 in summer 2020 – wow, time flies 🤯). While this has enabled easy exploration and prototyping, we’ve refined our core value proposition towards collaboration, storage, versioning, and distribution of large datasets and models with the community. At the same time, serverless providers have flourished, and the time was right for Hugging Face to offer easy and unified access to serverless inference through a set of great providers. 

Just as we work with great partners like AWS, Nvidia and others for dedicated deployment options via the model pages’ Deploy button, it was natural to partner with the next generation of serverless inference providers for model-centric, serverless inference.

Here’s what this enables, taking the timely example of DeepSeek/DeepSeek-R1, a model which has achieved mainstream fame over the past few days 🔥:

> <!-- <insert screenshot or GIF of DeepSeek-R1 model page showcasing fast Inference> -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**This is just the start, and we’ll build on top of this with the community in the [coming weeks](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/49)!**

## How it works

### In the website UI

1. In your user account settings, you are able to:
- set your own API keys for the providers you’ve signed up with. Otherwise, you can still use them – your requests will be routed through HF.
- order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages.

2. As we mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference APIs: 
- custom key (calls go directly to the inference provider, using your own API key of the corresponding inference provider); or
- Routed by HF (in that case, you don't need a token from the provider, and the charges are applied directly to your HF account rather than the provider's account)

> 3. model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible + Warm with the current model, sorted by user preference)

Reviewer 6: capitalize like other list points

```suggestion
3. Model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible + Warm with the current model, sorted by user preference)
```

---
title: "Welcome to Inference Providers on the Hub 🔥"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/inference-providers/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: burkaygur
  guest: true
  org: fal
- user: zeke
  guest: true
  org: replicate
- user: aton2006
  guest: true
  org: sambanovasystems
- user: hassanelmghari
  guest: true
  org: togethercomputer
- user: sbrandeis
- user: kramp
- user: julien-c
---

> Today, we are launching the integration of four awesome serverless Inference Providers – **fal, Replicate, Sambanova, Together AI** – directly on the Hub’s model pages. They are also seamlessly integrated into our client SDKs (for JS and Python), making it easier than ever to explore serverless inference of a wide variety of models that run on your favorite providers.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Today, we are launching the integration of four awesome serverless Inference Providers – **[fal](https://huggingface.co/fal), [Replicate](https://huggingface.co/replicate), [Sambanova](https://huggingface.co/sambanovasystems), [Together AI](https://huggingface.co/togethercomputer)** – directly on model pages. They are also seamlessly integrated into our client SDKs (for JS and Python), making it easier than ever to build your own AI with serverless inference of a wide variety of models powered by your favorite providers.
```

<!-- <insert big visual with logos> -->
 

> We’ve been hosting a serverless Inference API on the Hub for a long time (we launched the v1 in summer 2020 – wow, time flies 🤯). While this has enabled easy exploration and prototyping, we’ve since refined our core value proposition towards collaboration, storage, versioning, and distribution of large datasets and models with the community. At the same time, serverless providers have flourished, and the time was right for Hugging Face to offer easy and unified access to serverless inference through a set of great providers. 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
We’ve been hosting a serverless Inference API on the Hub for a long time (we launched the v1 in summer 2020 – wow, time flies 🤯). While this has enabled easy exploration and prototyping, we’ve focused our value proposition for the community towards collaboration, storage, versioning, and distribution of large datasets and models, while offering dedicated deployments for production use cases through [Inference Endpoints](endpoints.huggingface.co/). At the same time, serverless providers have flourished, and the time was right for Hugging Face to offer easy and unified access to serverless inference through a set of great providers. 
```

> Just as we work with great partners like AWS, Nvidia and <insert other partners> for dedicated deployment options via the model pages’ Deploy button, it was natural to partner with the next generation of serverless inference providers for model-centric, serverless inference.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Just as we make it super easy to create dedicated deployments on our partners like AWS SageMaker and Azure ML via the model pages’ Deploy button, we are excited to partner with leading providers of serverless inference for open models.
```

**This is just the start, and we’ll build on top of this with the community in the [coming weeks](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/HuggingDiscussions/discussions/49)!**

## How it works

### In the website UI

in your settings, you are able to:
set your own API keys for the providers you’ve signed up with. Otherwise, you can still use them – your requests will be routed through HF.
order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages. They will use the first provider in your list where the model you’re browsing is “Warm”, or already loaded.

As we mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference APIs: 
custom key (calls go out to the inference provider directly, using your own API key); or
Routed by HF (in that case, you don't need a token from the provider, and the charges are applied directly to your HF account rather than the provider's account)

model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible + Warm with the current model, sorted by user preference)

### From the client SDKs

#### from Python, using huggingface_hub

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```python
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
	provider="together",
	api_key="hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
)

messages = [
	{
		"role": "user",
		"content": "What is the capital of France?"
	}
]

completion = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1", 
	messages=messages, 
	max_tokens=500
)

print(completion.choices[0].message)
```
```

todo

#### from JS using @huggingface/inference

todo

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```js
import { HfInference } from "@huggingface/inference";

const client = new HfInference("hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx");

const chatCompletion = await client.chatCompletion({
	model: "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1",
	messages: [
		{
			role: "user",
			content: "What is the capital of France?"
		}
	],
	provider: "together",
	max_tokens: 500
});

console.log(chatCompletion.choices[0].message);
```
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
```

### From HTTP calls

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```bash
curl 'https://huggingface.co/api/inference-proxy/together/v1/chat/completions' \
-H 'Authorization: Bearer hf_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
    "model": "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1",
    "messages": [
		{
			"role": "user",
			"content": "What is the capital of France?"
		}
	],
    "max_tokens": 500,
    "stream": false
}'
```
```

}'
```

## Billing

> In the direct calls mode, i.e. when you use a custom key, you are billed by the corresponding Provider directly, for instance you're billed on your Together AI account when calling Together.

Reviewer 4: Would do:

In the direct calls mode, i.e. when you use the key from an inference provider, you are billed by the corresponding provider. For instance, if you use a Together AI key you're billed on your Together AI account.

> In the Routing mode, our intent is to charge for routed requests the same amount you would pay if you called the API directly. That is, we don't charge anything on top of Provider requests. (If this feature is successful, we might get revenue share from our partners).

Reviewer 4: Would do:

In the Routing mode, you are billed on your Hugging Face account. We try to match the price of calling the providers directly, because we don't charge anything extra. (If this feature is successful, we may get revenue share from our partners).

Author: can you commit directly? 🙏
